---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Contribute to plone.restapi"
    "property=og:description": "Contribute to plone.restapi"
    "property=og:title": "Contribute to plone.restapi"
    "keywords": "Plone, plone.restapi, REST, API, contribute, documentation"
---

# Contribute to `plone.restapi`

This section describes how to contribute to the `plone.restapi` project.
It extends {doc}`plone:contributing/index`. 


## Pre-requisites

Prepare your system by installing pre-requisites.


### System libraries

See {ref}`plone:plone-pre-requisites-label`.


## Set up development environment

We use GNU `make` when developing `plone.restapi`.
To install this package, its dependencies, and its documentation, code formatting, and testing tools, run the following command in the root of the project.

```shell
make
```


## Generate documentation examples

This documentation includes examples of requests and responses (http, curl, httpie, and python-requests).
These examples are generated by the documentation tests in `test_documentation.py`.
To generate a new example, add a new test case to `test_documentation.py`, for example `test_documentation_search_fullobjects`, and run the test

```shell
./bin/test -t test_documentation_search_fullobjects
```

This generates the request and the response files in `tests/http-examples/`.

Include them in the documentation using MyST syntax:

````markdown
```{eval-rst}
..  http:example:: curl httpie python-requests
    :request: ../../src/plone/restapi/tests/http-examples/search_fullobjects.req

..  literalinclude:: ../../src/plone/restapi/tests/http-examples/search_fullobjects.resp
    :language: http
```
````

Build the documentation locally to test the rendering using the appropriate Makefile target.

`docs-clean`
: Clean current and legacy docs build directories, and Python virtual environment

`docs-html`
: Build HTML

`docs-linkcheck`
: Run linkcheck

`docs-linkcheckbroken`
: Run linkcheck and show only broken links

`docs-livehtml`
: Rebuild Sphinx documentation on changes, with live-reload in the browser

`docs-vale`
: Run spell, grammar, and style checks

`docs`
: Build Docs

Make sure you add and commit the generated files in `http-examples`.

## Conventions

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2

conventions
```

## Code formatting and testing

To ensure consistent code formatting, we use [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html).
All pull requests must pass code formatting checks.
We recommend that you run Black locally.
You can use the following command to automatically format the code.

```shell
make black
```

To run tests locally and ensure your changes don't introduce any issues, use the following command.
This will execute the test suite and provide test feedback.

```shell
make test
```
